ADR-0007 Remove TxIndexer (#45)
pokt-network/pocket-network-protocol: ADRs/ADR0007-remove-tx-indexer.md

# ADR - Remove TxIndexer Submodule

* Status: Draft
* Deciders: @olshansk, @dylanlott, @h5law
* Date: 5 July 2023

## Technical Story

In the course of determining how to handle invalid transactions, it became clear the `TxIndexer` was an equal counterpart to the `TreeStore`, which contradicts prior statements about the `TreeStore` as being the "source of truth" for the peristence layer.

> Instead, the `TxIndexer` mirror the Postgres database by its reliance on SQL queries to update its trees, allowin invalid entries between the two is possible in both directions. Invalid transactions can be persisted in Postgres, and invalid Postgres data can be persisted in transactions. Part of the savepionts and rollbacks work was to address this discrepancy, and to a large degree it has, but we could eliminate additional possible issues if we simplified the design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, the `TxIndexer` mirrors the Postgres database by its reliance on SQL queries to update its trees, allowing invalid entries between the two is possible in both directions. Invalid transactions can be persisted in Postgres, and invalid Postgres data can be persisted in transactions. Part of the savepionts and rollbacks work was to address this discrepancy, and to a large degree it has, but we could eliminate additional possible issues if we simplified the design.
```

> allowing invalid entries between the two is possible in both directions

this sentence doesnt make sense to me

            treeStore --> postgres
            postgres --> blockStore
        end
        2PC --> Success --> Broadcast[Broadcast New Block] 
        2PC --> Retry[Retry Logic? Pass leadership?]
    end
```

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    subgraph Two Phase Application - Replica Perspective
        Replica(HotStuff Replica) -->|prepareBlock| SetProposalBlock 
        SetProposalBlock(SetProposalBlock) --> ApplyBlock[Apply Block]
        ApplyBlock(ApplyBlock) --> 2PC 
        subgraph 2PC[Block Application]
            treeStore --> postgres
            postgres --> blockStore
        end
        2PC --> Success(Success)
        2PC --> Error(Error)
    end
```

## Decision Drivers

**Big decision**: direction of data flow

The flow of data is currently non-linear in the persistence layer. There is a substantial and asynchronous indirection between the PostgreSQL layer, the TxIndexer, and the BlockStore. During creation of the next proposal block, the transactions are pulled from the TxIndexer, but then at a later time, in a different place, they are queried from the indexer to update the Merkle trees.

**Mid decision**: architecture of components

> The TxIndexer is currently used by the `ipc`, `rpc`, and `trees` packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TxIndexer is currently used by the `ibc`, `rpc`, and `trees` packages.
```
